Containers, the foundation
of modern web applications.
So, we talked about containers, they fit
in the same bucket as microservices.
If we talk about microservices and
container.
If you talk about how we orchestrate,
all these containers together,
then how do we balance out the connections
going to all these different servers we
just created, and
how do we deploy all that?
Again, this is its own complex field.
We're gonna cover it in a few minutes.
So, we're gonna be just
enough to be dangerous.
Most of you have probably heard
of the microservice architecture.
It's a software architecture
of loosely connected services.
The opposite of the microservice
architecture is the monolith,
that's just one giant PHP file or
one giant PHP repo, or Python and
Django is usually a popular one.
You can do everything in Django or
you can have a mix of both.
You can have a monolithic connects to a
bunch of microservices, things like that.
The picture on the left is an old
demo of someone made a Netflix or
in a hack day showing all of
our microservices connected.
This is many years out of date.
So you see the complexity of
way over here is the internet,
about here is where my team owns,
which is netflix.com.
And it's really small.
The names don't mean anything.
They're just gibberish.
But that's just the surface level.
As you are engineers,
we usually stay about here,
when in reality we're learning through
this course that there's a whole lot
behind the things we do that we count on.
The pros and
cons of microservices versus monolith.
Monolith, it's easy to work in.
It's one language generally.
Everybody if you're
working on the same repo,
you know what everybody else is doing.
There's not gonna be any
large conflict generally,
because you're all working in
the same file system, same repo.
The pros of microservices are I can
write a React application, you can write
Angular applications, one can write
an application in Java or Groovy.
If we don't have to talk
to each other at all,
we can write applications
in our own specialty.
The downside of microservices
is coordination.
If everybody's writing their own services
in their own languages, with their own
idea about what the API should look like,
how do we get each other to talk to or
how do we talk to each other
in a way that makes sense?
So, there's a trade off, it's that,
like we said, Netflix freedom and
responsibility, the same applies for
microservices.
You have the freedom, but
you're responsible for
connecting to your partners as well.
So, I won't say which one is better or
the other.
We see microservices becoming more and
more popular because they're
easier to reason about.
We can have people at
different levels of expertise.
However, you do have to
manage microservices, so
there's no one size fits all.
The way we are able to create
microservices is we use something called
containerization.
Similar to the concept of virtualization,
but virtualization is slicing up a server
specifically into these chunks,
these distinct parts.
Just like we bought our own VPS,
Virtual Private Server.
Hence, virtualization container goes
a little bit farther and it says, hey,
what if you have a service?
And we're just like,
this is just like our service here,
except we're only using a slice of it.
And we're using NodeJS, MySQL,
Nginx or without using MySQL, SQLite.
But this is all one server.
But what if instead of that,
what if we just broke it up into each of
these has its own microservice,
its own container.
So now, instead of our server just
running, NodeJS and Nginx in one block,
it would just run a container
that has NodeJS application, and
Nginx is an entirely
different application.
That allows us to say update
different things at different times,
allows different people to work on
different things without interrupting
the whole system.
Just like every time we update
our Nginx configuration,
we had to restart this system which takes
us down for a few seconds at a time.
What if we can get around that by
having a container with Nginx running?
We update half the containers,
the other half stay up and running.
Then when they're all updated, we just
switch traffic over really quickly.
And that way there's zero downtime.
And these are kind of newer,
newish concepts in the world of
software engineering, like zero downtime
and containerizations, things like that.
And really, containers are the core
besides virtualization of cloud computing,
because now I can buy these VPSs,
I can buy these chunks of a server that
are running chunks of
an application at a time.
And allows to scale out really,
really well.
And for a lot of people, it's hard to kind
of wrap your head around this like why we
need containers and virtualization but
remember, somewhere like where I work
at Netflix, we're running thousands
of containers just for our website.
We're running thousands of
instances of our databases.
You scale all that out,
it gets really, really complex.
But it's so much more efficient than
me creating 100 Ubuntu servers and
setting them all up manually and doing
the whole thing we just went through in
the past couple lessons,
that will be a lot of work.
Why don't we just wrap it all up in
instructions and that way, we have some
layer that says it doesn't matter what
operating system running on, your
program is always going to work because
it's just this tiny little container.
And that's what we're going to do today,
we're going to create a container.
And the great thing about containers
are they don't care about what operating
system you're running on.
So, yeah, we're running on Ubuntu right
now, but what if I want to run on OSX?
What if I want to run on Red Hat or
Fedora or something like that?
Containers can run on anywhere because
they're operating system agnostic.
It's up to that parsing layer.
And for our instances, we use Docker.
Docker's the big one you've probably
all heard of when it comes to container
management.
There's also Amazon ECS,
Apache Mesos, CoreOS rkt, etc.
There's a lot of different
solutions these days.
And I touched on this earlier, but
containers are super lightweight.
They only run the application
that you need, nothing else.
No other fluff.
If they're portable,
we can move them around from OS to OS.
They're much easier for development,
because you can just download my container
image and you get up and
running very, very quickly.
They're easy to manage.
Because I think as we saw when we
implemented web sockets and databases,
the more things you have put together, the
more chances something is gonna go wrong.
So if you're only running one application,
it's a lot easier to reason
about when something breaks.
They're faster to start up, because again,
it's only that application.
And most importantly, we decouple
the application from the infrastructure,
which is really important.
I've talked a lot about the paved road and
saying we're using Ubuntu and Nginx and
we're following this really tight path,
which makes it easy for
us to use other tools.
But what if we can just
decouple all that entirely, so
it doesn't matter what
the underlying infrastructure is,
what our operating system is, we can just
write applications that run anywhere.
That's why containers are really,
really awesome.